http://music.163.com/radio/?id=526755614&userid=1515228979

讲义：
`A:\English\CET-4\有道四级【2018年12月】\00 内部讲义扫描\四级听力\听力.pdf`


>完整读到>拼凑读到
1.边听边做，尽量不等问题（两个选项都想选时才听问题），读选项时圈出之前选项已存在的单词，做为定位标志。
2.视听一致+同义替换为主要方法
3.“定位次 & 0.1s” 大法有时可定位
4.一个小话题结束，一道题目可能就已经结束
5.顺序出题（乱序是极少数）

# 核心技巧听力 1
## 例1
A. Sony developed a computer chip for cell phones.
B. Japan will market its wallet phone abroad.
C. The wallet phone is one of the wireless innovations.
D. Reader devices are available at stores and stations.

## 例2
A. There was a bomb scare.
B. There was a terrorist attack.
C. A fire alarm was set off by mistake.
D. 50 pounds of explosives were found.

## 例3
19.
A. He has taught Spanish for a couple of years at a local school.
B. He worked at the Brownstone Company for several years.
C. He owned a small retail business in Michigan years ago.
D. He has been working part-time in a school near Detroit.

20.
A. He prefers a full-time job with more responsibility.
B. He is eager to find a job with an increased salary.
C. He likes to work in a company close to home.
D. He would rather get a less demanding job.

## 例4
17.
A. He once worked in a well-known acting company.
B. He moved to Stratford-upon-Avon in his childhood.
C. He failed to go beyond grammar school.
D. He was a member of the town council.

## 例5
5.
A. All taxis began to use meters.
B. All taxis got air conditioning.
C. Advertisements were allowed on taxis.
D. Old taxis were replaced with new cabs.

## 例6
3.
A. They set foot in Florida.
B. They were drowned.
C. They were flown to the U.S.
D. They were sent back to Cuba.

## 例7
12.
A. Her new responsibilities in the company.
B. What her job prospects are.
C. What the customers' feedback is.
D. The director's opinion of her work.

## 例8
20.
A. The majority of them think it less important than computers.
B. Many of them consider it boring and old-fashioned.
C. The majority of them find it interesting.
D. Few of them read more than ten books a year.

# 核心技巧听力 2
## 例9 （听力讲义P6~7）
19.
A. He prefers the smaller evening classes
B. He has signed up for a day course.
C. He has to work during the day.
D. He finds the evening course cheaper.

20.
A. Learn a computer language.
B. Learn data processing.
C. Buy some computer software.
D. Buy a few coursebooks.

21.
A. Thursday evening, from 7:00 to 9:45.
B. From September 1 to New Year's eve.
C. Every Monday, lasting for 12 weeks.
D. Three hours a week, 45 hours in total.

22.
A. What to bring for registration.
B. Where to attend the class.
C. How he can get to Frost Hall.
D. Whether he can use a check.

## 重要考点：灾难
死：death toll / be killed / dead
伤：the injured / hurt / wounded / hospitalized
伤亡人数：casualty      （ = 死 + 伤）
因：be caused by
地/时：on / in / at

## 例10（听力讲义P9）
32.
A. A goods train hit a bus carrying many passengers.
B. Two passenger trains crashed into each other.
C. A passenger train collided with a goods train.
D. An express train was derailed when hit by a bomb.

33.
A. The rescue operations have not been very effective.
B. More than 300 injured passengers were hospitalized.
C. The cause of the tragic accident remains unknown.
D. The exact casualty figures are not yet available.

## 例11（听力讲义P10）
3.
A. Thefts of snowmobile dogs in Alaska.
B. A series of injuries to snowmobile drivers.
C. Attacks on some Iditarod Race competitors.
D. A serious accident in the Alaska sports event.

4.
A. He stayed behind to look after his injured dogs.
B. He has won the Alaska Iditarod Race four times.
C. He received a minor injury in the Iditarod Race.
D. He has quit the competition in Alaska for good.

## 例11（听力讲义P11）
12.
A. They are keen on high technology.
B. They are poor at technology skills.
C. They often listen to National Public Radio.
D. They feel superior in science and technology.

13.
A. Japanese B. Germans. C. Poles D. Americans

14.
A. Emailing B. Texting C. Science. D. Literacy

15.
A. It is undergoing a drastic reform.
B. It lays emphasis on creative thinking.
C. It has much room for improvement.
D. It prioritizes training of practical skills.

